hamas's military Wing has aired a video
of what it says is the killing of three
Israeli soldiers operating in Gaza on
Wednesday the video showed a group of
soldiers being targeted by snipers
several times the attack took place
north of bate hanon the Israeli Army
didn't confirm the attack since October
7th Israeli military's confirmed the
killing of 614 soldiers in
Gaza after more than 7 months of War
Israel has still not achieved it stated
goal of eliminating Hamas this month saw
Fierce fighting in jabalia in Northern
Gaza after the Israeli Army went back to
areas where it had said Hamas had
regrouped the US based newsite Politico
reports that only 30 to 35% of Hamas
Fighters were part of the group before
October 7th have been killed and about
65% of its tunnels are still intact this
according to American intelligence it
also reported concerns from us officials
that herass has been able to recruit
thousands of Fighters during the war and
the US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin
has criticized Israel for failing to
prevent Hamas from taking back areas it
once
controlled let's get more in this now
with William Lawrence a professor of
international relations the American
University joins us now from Washington
what can you tell us about the
conversation or perhaps even the concern
there in Washington about Israel's
military strategy in
Gaza well right from the beginning there
hasn't been much agreement between the
US and uh and Israel you may remember
that it sent in its Commander from the
mul operation seeing mosul maybe as the
most similar recent military operation
by the US in which the US managed not to
kill a lot of Iraqi civilians and Purge
Isis from um uh from Iraq and or at
least this urban areas of Iraq and most
of Iraq and Israelis basically didn't
take that um that strategy to heart um
and while they do have mechanisms to
avoid killing civilians didn't Implement
their own policies either and uh and
ended up killing you know at least
16,000 civilians by their own admission
and probably many more uh and so um
there's a huge disagreement between the
US and Israel on strategy now the us as
you probably know is withholding heavy
bombs withholding intelligence not
supporting the Rafa operation other way
because the us both on the intelligence
side and on the military strategy side
doesn't agree with Israel's approach uh
to defeating Hamas even though the US
agrees uh to some degree in the idea of
Hamas no longer governing Gaza uh it
really believes the strategy is all
wrong but it's not really prepared to
follow that up with solid action despite
what you say
about the concern there in Washington
it's very difficult to believe that
there is an absolute wholehearted
support for Israel when they have
supplied Israel billions of dollars
worth of weapons and funding and after
the deaths of over
35,000 people in Gaza including 15,000
kids and 880,000
injured um if I could just make one
point there the UN has revised down its
uh its estimate of how many children
were killed to around
8,000 still a lot of
children yeah yeah yeah it's it's it's
horrible uh and 8,000 more than it
should have been uh but but back to the
um the strategy at hand the US uh has
given more or less a card blanch to
Israel does continue armed shipments to
Israel of of the lighter weapons the
tank weapons uh etc etc and so from a
Palestinian perspective it's absolutely
clear that the US is doing next to
nothing to save them from the onslaught
of the Israeli forces um but from an
American perspective we have the worst
relationship with Israel we've had in my
lifetime uh and the amount of
disagreement uh between the US and
Israel strategy Grows by the day uh to
the point that the US is building a $230
million Pier off the coast just to get
around Israel's refusal to feed the
Palestinians uh and and all these other
things the US is trying to do kind of to
have its cake and eat it too in an
in that make I mean as an American you
know a professor of of course you've
studied these issues for a very long
time but I mean you the America
sacrificing its own political um
security Regional interest for the sake
of Israel has it sort of reached a
threshold that you you wouldn't have
predicted I would say since 2008 the US
policy began to change on Palestine and
it will finish changing within the next
10 years or so maybe more maybe less but
my whole life the US has given carp
lunch support to Israel most of the time
no matter how bad things got and now we
have about 25% of Americans half the
Democratic party that are disgusted with
what the US is doing and that over time
is going to change the US policy but for
me you know back in the day in the 80s a
lot of us the old guard of pro
Palestinian Americans we were alone you
know there were very few of us probably
1% of the population then it was 5% now
we're at about 25% of Americans who are
disgusted with this policy towards uh
Palestine which defies international law
defies US foreign policy um uh better
objectives and ruins our relationships
with the world and with the region for
the reasons you said uh but it's a long
slow slog to get where we are now and
it's going to take more of a slog to
finish getting there it something that
did change with the Biden Administration
is they started to to say things like a
Palestinian life is equal to an Israeli
life something they' never said before
and they're actually increasing
humanitarian assistance and stopping
arms which never happened before uh but
it hasn't gotten to the point where the
US has the courage or The Willpower to
say to Israel stop fighting the war this
way not only does it make everybody less
safe Palestinians uh and the whole
region but it makes you less safe as
Israelis because you're creating another
generation of res ful Palestinians who
are going to want to exact revenge on
you all right thank you very much uh
Professor William Lawrence for joining
us there from Washington
DC make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from alera